Hey everybody.
Hello.
Let's, let's just kick it off and get started.
Hello and welcome to Python bites where we deliver Python news and headlines directly
to your earbuds.
This is episode 328 and I am Brian Okken.
329.
Oh, it's 329.
Okay, let's do it again.
Hello and welcome to Python Bytes, where we deliver Python news and headlines directly
to your earbuds. This is episode 329, recorded March 30th, 2023. And I'm Brian Okken.
>> I'm Michael Kennedy.
>> And before we get started, I want to do a couple of things. I want to thank Microsoft
for Startup Founders Hub for sponsoring this episode. Please listen to their spot. We've
We've got a very special random guest appearance or voice
for that ad read.
So that'll be fun.
I also, if you're listening to this,
I'd like to encourage you to,
and you've never watched the live show,
I'd like to encourage you to watch our live show
on YouTube or streaming.
We usually, today's Thursday,
but we usually record Tuesday at noon or 11.
No, Tuesday at 11.
Yeah, I should have practiced this.
Anyway, but welcome and people that are here today
are watching on YouTube.
Thanks for watching.
And why don't you kick us off, Michael?
- I got something.
I think it'll resonate with you folks.
Maybe you already are aware of this.
This is news to me.
Comes to us from Brandon Hannigan.
So thanks for sending that in.
And it's an environment variable
and in and of itself, it's interesting
that it leads to many more environment variables
you can play with is also pretty awesome.
So this one is about the Dunder Pi Cache folder.
So I don't know how you feel about these, Brian.
I'm glad they exist.
I'm not necessarily super glad that they're spread out
a bunch of random folders.
So a lot of my projects have many different modules
and different folders, submodule type set up.
And when I run them, they all get filled up
with DunderPyCache folders with startup PYC,
compiled Python, like people might think.
I think Python is compiled, but yes, Python is compiled.
It's just then interpreted not,
all the way to machine instructions, right?
So those files end up in the DunderPyCache,
which spread throughout your project structure.
Sometimes I wanna make a copy of that.
I wanna move that around.
I wanna zip it up and share it.
And I don't want those things in there.
And so I'll have to go in and search for all those
and remove them recursively,
which is not at the end of the world,
but I'd rather they are not there,
or if they were there,
could they just go in a top level thing?
You know what I mean?
Like, they just go into a single gender PyCache
that understands the whole structure,
not every file being treated as if it's unrelated.
Anyway.
- I mean, it's better than it used to be
of having the PYCs right next to the Python files.
- Yes, it is an improvement.
But this thing that Brendan said,
and you can set the Python PyCache prefix,
which is a path, maybe it should be called
Python cache folder, I don't know.
Anyway, what you do is you set this
in your environment variable,
maybe in your user account,
maybe in the activation of a virtual environment,
if you want it to be a one-off type thing, I don't know.
Then when Python goes to create these, it goes,
oh, they don't want the DunderPy cache,
it over in this directory over there. And so it'll make you can isolate all of your
under pi cache stuff into a separate location on your user profile. You can go and blast
that away whenever you feel like. But most importantly, it's not within your source code.
If you like zip it up and hand it out or things like that.
Oh, wow. Okay. Yeah, that's great. Yeah, it says if if this is set, Python will write
"start.pyc files in a mirror directory tree at this path
"instead of and under PyCache directories
"within the source tree.
"This is equivalent to specifying the -x
"pycache prefix equals path option."
So pretty cool, right?
- Yeah, I also didn't know about the -x though either.
So that's pretty cool.
- Yeah, this page that I'm linking to is at the top,
it has all the command line options
and then almost all the command line options
have an environment variable thing
if you want it to just be the default all the time
and you don't have to set it.
So there's a bunch you can come through here.
So Python path, you can set Python startup.
So these are the Python commands that'll execute
whenever you start Python, which is kind of interesting.
Optimize, breakpoint, debug.
The one we talked about, you can set up a hash seed
So you can get repeatable deterministic hashing.
A bunch of stuff is here people can check out.
How you look at warnings,
how much warnings you wanna see,
whether or not there's buffering.
So you'll see sometimes things like the standard out
will come after the standard error,
but the standard error in time
actually came after the out, right?
'Cause the buffering got out of,
they hit the buffer at different periods.
So you can do things like turn that off,
turn on malloc stats if you want to track that.
So there's like a bunch of things you can come in here
and play with, but I think the PYC one's an interesting one,
especially for people who hand out code.
You know, like if you're doing like a training or a tutorial
and you're like, "Here, I want to give everybody this."
You can have the PYC file.
Again.
- I was just looking through there
'cause I'm surprised that you can't specify
which XKCD comic don't link to, but you know.
- I know.
When I import anti-gravity, which one?
Don't worry, we'll get there.
- Cool.
- All right, well, that's what I got for this one.
The Python PyCache prefix.
Check it out. - Nice.
- Yeah.
- I wanted to talk about GUIs.
We haven't talked about GUIs for a while.
Actually, we haven't. - We should have.
We were on such a kick.
- Yeah, but several people have mentioned this to us,
so we thought we'd cover it.
It's a package called snicegui.
And normally, actually, when I think about GUI,
I think about like actual, not web stuff,
but user interface stuff that's on the desktop.
But this is a browser-based thing.
So this is a package that's,
it says it's easy to use Python-based UI framework,
which shows up in your web browser.
Buttons, dialogues, markdown, 3D plots, and more.
What's cool is you can play with it all
before you even try it.
So the documentation is really great.
And even just here, I thought this was just like a screenshot or something.
No, you can just like, this is part of it.
You can move it and interact with it right here in the first page.
It's pretty cool.
The document, full documentation is really pretty great too.
I actually want to try to play with this because the code really looks pretty easy to write.
So for some quick, maybe dashboards or some quick control stuff that you're okay with doing through a web browser,
Why not try it out?
And some of these are pretty cool.
I was playing with text input.
So it's talking about validation stuff.
So you can have some text and you can just start typing
and it's saying, oh, that's too long.
So you can, I mean, this validation is pretty simple
of just checking length,
but you can do all sorts of stuff like email validation
or whatever you want it to do,
because it's just like a function that's calling.
So kind of neat.
You got a validation there.
knobs, knobs are fun.
I was playing with the knobs.
So drag knob and turning.
Anyway, all sorts of fun things.
- I like how you use a context manager
to put it into the page with knob.
- What?
With knob.
Interesting, I wonder why.
- I don't know.
Oh, to put the icon inside it.
So you basically, it looks like you're focusing
the subsequent commands to be within the container
of the knob, 'cause the knob is like a circular
progress bar type thing, and you can put a,
like a volume up icon inside it.
- Okay.
Anyway, just all sorts of cool stuff.
Joystick, that's really, I don't have a joystick
to play with this out, but some interesting naming there
with the joystick, but anyway.
- So moving on, date pickers and all sorts of things.
Ooh, that's nice.
Cool.
But UI elements, if you're okay with trying something new,
a nice GUI might be right for you.
So that's it.
- It's interesting, isn't it?
You know, when I look at these types of frameworks
that a lot of times I feel like what they say is,
HTML is terrible, the DOM is terrible, CSS is terrible.
let's create a parallel Python
or name your language equivalent
where we put elements in the webpage.
I'm like, hmm, they may have their drawbacks
but at least you have a ton of tools and stuff
that apply to HTML and CSS and all those things, right?
- Yeah. - But with this one,
I think there's a lot of cool widgets
and stuff that are here.
And it looks more like the, it's not like,
we don't like HTML so let's make a Python DOM
that you create the HTML with,
but rather like how do we make a cool interactive page
based on these additional things like knobs
and joysticks and sliders
and stuff that's not easily part of HTML.
- Yeah, and the places where I would really use
something like this are, I mean, this is a short code.
So especially internal tools where,
or even just stuff for myself,
if I want to explore some data control,
like a database or got a bunch of, you know,
controlling some system or something,
and I wanna like quickly throw something together,
something like this would be great for just doing a,
like a one pager or something to try it out.
- I also think these types of frameworks
would be pretty cool to bring into some kind of
no electron JS type thing, where you're like,
and here's how you make it an app
that doesn't actually look like a webpage
and give it to someone.
- Yeah, so one of the things they bring up is like,
great for micro web apps, dashboards, robotics projects,
like school robotics, stuff like that.
Smart home solutions.
- Oh, that joystick thing, right?
Could drive you a little.
- And then one of the nice things that I noticed
about the documentation is they've got a bunch of demos.
Oh, these are the actual demos, but there's examples.
Where did I find those?
Is it maybe under examples?
Well, anyway, there's a whole bunch of like actual code.
So there's repos around that you can try it out
with different repositories.
Maybe it's just on the front page.
Anyway, I was impressed.
Oh yeah, here we go.
Down at the bottom of the front page,
there's like slideshows.
And even if you want to, will this work with FastAPI?
Apparently there's a FastAPI example
for just some quick repositories.
so you can try it out yourself.
- Maybe like an admin page type of thing
that you can play with.
Yeah, there's some OpenCV webcam.
- Infinite scroll for galleries.
And the amount of like demos of components right there,
but then actually specific examples where you can,
you know, with the code,
with repos that you can just copy and get started with,
that's pretty impressive that they put all that together
right off the bat.
- Yeah.
Yeah, it looks like it's definitely worth checking out.
- Do you know what else is worth checking out?
- Our sponsor.
- Yes, Microsoft for Startups Founders Hub.
Thank you for sponsoring this episode.
And what was the key that you,
how did you generate this code, the text?
- Well, remember, I don't recall who suggested it
because I had the American football coach
motivational speech version, variant last time.
And somebody said, well, what if it was like Ted Lasso?
So I said, hey, open AI thing,
here's the Microsoft ad.
Could you rewrite it this time in the style of Ted Lasso?
- Yeah, so it's an odd episode.
So I get the honor of trying to be Ted Lasso,
which I'm not gonna get the voice, so apologies.
And I did not grow up in the Midwest.
So anyway, let's just get started.
Hey there team, gather around
because I've got something real special
to share with y'all.
Now, you know how much I believe
in the power of teamwork and positivity, right?
Well, this opportunity I'm telling you,
about to tell you is just like the perfect assist
to your startup goal.
I'm talking about the Microsoft for Startups
Founders Hub, folks.
Now imagine if you will, a locker room full of support
for your startup, especially if you're keen
on that there artificial intelligence stuff.
We're talking over six figures of benefits
that'll change the game for your team.
They're offering you 150K in Azure credits.
And that my friends is like having the best player
on the field on your side.
And what's more, the Founders Hub has given y'all
a unique chance to access open AIs, APIs,
and the new Azure Open API,
The Azure OpenAI service.
It's like having your own generative AI coach
to help you come up with game winning strategies
for your applications.
Now, I know how important it is to have the right support.
And that's why the folks at Microsoft
are also offering one-on-one technical advice,
helping you with your game plan, scalability and security.
Plus, you'll be part of a network of mentors
who know the startup would like,
Does the startup world like the back of their hand?
I can't emphasize enough
how amazing this opportunity is friends.
And guess what?
It's open to everyone,
no matter what stage your startup's at
and no funding requirements.
Just take five minutes to apply
and you'll be on your way to reaping some massive benefits.
So come on team,
let's harness the power of AI for your startup
and join Microsoft for Startup Founders Hub today.
Head on over to pythonbytes.fm/foundershub2022
and sign up.
This is your chance to score big.
So don't let it slip through your fingers.
And just so you know,
the ad you just heard was written by the same AI
you'll get access to.
Ain't that something?
So don't wait any longer and sign up at
pythonbytes.fm/foundershub2022.
The big thank you for Microsoft,
to Microsoft for supporting this show.
- That open AI, that sure is something.
All right, speaking of something, let's talk about ngrok.
- Okay. - Let's talk about Flask.
Like I can't decide, let's talk about both.
So this one I wanna cover is an interesting one.
So I've talked about ngrok before.
For those of you who don't know,
like unfortunately their website,
I don't know what's gone on,
but they've redesigned it in a way
they can't really tell what it does,
but it's just, anyway.
In Grok, what it does is it lets you run a command locally
and then share your web app, whether that be for an API,
someone needs to talk to the API,
or just the web app itself.
So for example, Brian, imagine you had created a cool demo
of that nice GUI thing, and you wanted to let some people
you're in a meeting with your team,
like, hey, you guys, y'all should check this out.
This is really, really cool.
and what you might do normally would say,
well, let's just fire up a screen sharing
and I'll drive it around.
But the interaction part of those widgets is really cool.
So it'd be better if you could just say
and interact with this, right?
So if you fire up ngrok, you just give them a URL
that reverse SSH tunnels into your machine
and then they can access it on the internet
with their browser and everyone can play with it live.
Right? - Okay, yeah.
- So that's really cool.
I recently used that for, I'm just about to release
a course called Python Web Apps that fly with CDNs.
Like basically how do you do really awesome stuff
with CDNs plus Python and Flask and all those things
to make your app way, way faster.
- Nice.
- Well, in order to put that together and test it,
you've gotta let a public CDN get access
to your dev machine, which like, how does that happen?
In Grok is how that happens.
Same thing with our mobile apps, like,
and you can see, like right here,
we had this problem where some of the data
wasn't being passed through as headers correctly
to the server, and we're like,
we cannot figure out why this is not working.
It's clearly in the headers collection.
Why is Python not seeing those?
And it turns out there was like a weird
case sensitivity issue or whatever.
But I just fired up ngrok, pressed debug on PyCharm,
and said, all right, try it again.
And then boom, I'm like stepping through,
like on a mobile device, I'm stepping through
its interaction with the APIs.
I'm like, oh, I see, here's what's happening
and then we fix it, super easy.
All of that is to set up Flask-ngrok.
So all of those benefits are awesome,
but like what I gotta do is I have to go fire up ngrok,
go over, do the thing, and then come back, right?
So it'd be cool maybe if I could just press go,
either run, you know, Flask run,
or just go in PyCharm or VS Code,
and it would just, in addition to starting up Flask,
it would also start up ngrok,
pointing back to whatever the right port is, right?
So basically that's what this is.
You just wrap the app in run with ngrok,
so you get a run with ngrok app.
And then when you say flask run,
it fires up the local version,
but it also fires up an ngrok URL
that you can share with people.
- Oh, cool.
- Yeah, so not a huge, huge feature,
'cause sure you can run ngrok on your own,
but I think it's kind of cool.
Basically, that means whenever you run your Flask code,
your Flask app for debugging or for dev or whatever,
there's always a publicly accessible address
that you can share with other people
or you can type into some other tool.
I want to validate an RSS feed.
I want to have my API,
some API client that is not on my machine,
like a mobile app or some other,
think if this, then that,
or one of those types of things,
all those can just come back right in
'cause you always have this public address available,
which I think is pretty cool.
- That's pretty cool.
- Yeah, so if that sounds useful, people can check it out.
- Oh man, okay, so I was just thinking,
I wonder if random address, 'cause like I need another URL
that I'm not doing anything with,
but I was wondering if random address was taken
and random address is taken, so.
- Is it random addresses?
(laughing)
- No, we have enough.
I've got several that I'm not using.
- Yeah, that's awesome.
All right, cool.
- Okay.
- Anyway, people can check this out
if they are doing a lot with ngrok.
By the way, one thing that I think would be interesting,
I didn't see in the docs whether or not this is easy,
possible, impossible, whatever.
One of the things you can do is you can set it up
so that this random address is repeatable.
Otherwise, if you just rerun it,
you'll get a new random address,
which you got to keep typing in by doing like subdomain type
things and stuff.
If you've got a paid account, I don't know if it's possible
to have it do that or not.
But it would be cool if you could make it random,
but not completely random.
Anyway.
Not completely.
Just random once.
And then--
Yeah, random once.
And let's stick with that for a while.
All right.
What do you got for our last one?
I want to talk about async.
So Will McGugan wrote an article
called no async with Python.
No async, async.
And it's, that confused me,
but it's a really well-written article.
There's times where if you want to take advantage of async,
you kind of have to have async
all the way up and down the call stack, right?
Or you, maybe, that's what it seems like at least,
to make things sure this all works.
But, and so that's actually what I guess Textual did
at one point has made a synced all the things,
but textual now is async optional.
And so this article discusses how they do that.
And the first part is if you're passing in a callback to,
if you're providing a mechanism for somebody
to pass a callback in and that callback can,
you want it to be either just a normal function
or an async function,
he's utilizing the await me maybe pattern
that he borrowed from Simon Willison.
So Simon Willison wrote about this a couple of years ago
and he shows, scroll almost to the bottom.
There's this, basically there's a way to,
you have an async function and it calls.
So the caller is async and you're calling something
that could be either async or not.
And you just call something and check to see
if it's a co-routine and then await it or don't await it.
And that's pretty much what Will is showing,
is inspect the callback,
inspect the result to see if it's awaitable or not.
Doing it a little bit different method,
but similar sort of effect.
So that's neat.
So you can provide a mechanism to add a callback
that could be async or not, optional.
But the other part around is,
if you're providing an async service
that could be called in either an async or non-async.
You want it to be called by anybody
because sometimes like he gives an example
of mounting a new widget into textual.
The caller might want to care,
might care about when that's actually done.
So they might wanna wait for that, but they might not.
They might just like keep going
because apparently textual handles it all correctly anyway.
They won't let something happen,
but the caller might not care about when it's done.
So to be able to allow both async and non-async callers
to call an async method,
that's a little bit yuckier code, but he provides it.
So there's this class, this await mount option.
So there's, I'm not gonna walk through all this code,
but basically there's a way to do it
and Will has the method to allow you to have.
And I think that's kind of neat
to be able to provide services and APIs that can be called
both in async and non-async ways.
Now, hopefully, this still is kind of ugly.
So hopefully as a community,
we can come up with a little bit cleaner solution,
but at least there's a solution.
So it's kind of nice.
- Yeah, Will did a nice job of this.
And I think it's really a huge benefit
that Textual has the ability to be async
but doesn't force you to be async.
Because if you're already writing async code,
you would like it to be because it's a benefit.
You can do more, parallel, be more responsive.
But if it means I have to take my non-async code
and now convert the whole thing to know about
some of the parts of it being async, well, that's a hassle.
And I think one of the things that drives me nuts
about Python's async,
There's a few little things that just make me crazy about it.
It's like, well, it's so close to awesome, right?
And much of it is awesome.
But for example, if I'm in a function,
and I want to say, here's some async code.
I want to just run it here.
So for example, async io get event loop,
loop.run sort of thing, or just async io.run to complete.
If it's already being called within an async function
with some other event loop and you don't know about it,
under certain times it'll crash and say,
there's already an event loop or there is no event loop.
You're like, well, give me, just, if I don't have one,
give me one.
If there is one, just give me that.
I don't care.
I just need to run something async.
And there's always this like weird,
I'm not really sure what state I am.
And if I get it wrong, then it gives me a, it crashes.
And that's just like, ah.
So I think that makes it challenging to kind of go.
This part we're just gonna isolate off the async,
which it sounds like Will did here, which is cool.
So that's really excellent.
- Yeah.
- Really quickly here too,
I've had a couple of shots at this myself as well.
Nothing I've published really very much
in terms of what Will's doing or what Simon talked about.
But for example, on FastAPI Chameleon
and the Jinja equivalent,
let's you just put a decorator on top of a FastAPI function
and then it returns the HTML view of that and stuff.
But those FastAPI functions,
they can be synchronous or they can be asynchronous.
And so what it has to do is it has to say,
is this function a coroutine?
Okay, the decorator has to return also an async one.
Otherwise, when you say async
and it becomes non-async, that's wrong.
But if it's async one, you can't return the async, right?
Like, so you gotta juggle this a lot,
which is kind of a pain.
And then the other one, I created this thing,
which I put up just as a gist that like,
just lets you say this async function,
we're gonna run it in a way that won't have
a conflicting event loop complaint
by constantly managing the background thread
and just pushing the work over there
and pulling the results back.
So yeah, it's interesting, but yeah,
that's a cool article.
- Yeah.
- And then, do you remember the call me maybe song?
- Call me maybe.
Yeah, I do.
- Yeah.
- Await me maybe.
- So Chris May added,
hey, I just defined you and this may be a sink,
but here's my variable, await me maybe.
So nice.
- Well done, Chris.
(laughing)
I love it, I love it.
Well, I don't have any extras, Brian.
You got any?
- I do.
We'll try to make them quick though.
So PyPI has a blog now.
Oh, let's pop over to here.
PyPI has a blog now.
So anyway, go check it out.
There's a welcome article.
So that's nice.
Neat.
And then, okay, so another extra, apparently a Docker.
No, they're laying off plans of charging people
for the free team plan,
which is kind of a bummer for people like me
that paid for it anyway.
But, you know, anyway.
So that's cool.
Maybe I won't have to pay next year.
I guess they're offering refunds or something,
but I'll look into that.
- I guess there must've been a big backlash.
I haven't been tracking this, but.
- Oh yeah.
I mean, like it's been a scramble all over the place
of people because there's sometimes
it's a very minimal interaction with it.
And then suddenly we have to pay for it
and you got to figure out how many users
how many seats and all that sort of stuff.
And yeah, or if you want to use it without,
so if you want to use it without the user interface,
you can use it for free.
But if you like people asking, are you using it?
Yes, we are.
Cause we debug with it and everything.
So, so I'm glad they're backing off.
I still want to, I mean, of course it's a great service.
They should be able to make money somehow,
but there should be a free anyway.
- I'm glad, so it's good news.
I only, the only thing left I have is a joke.
Do you want to do mine first or yours first?
- Yeah, let's hear yours first.
- Okay, it's just sort of, I was looking up,
I was looking up some documentation for pytestCov
and noticed at the bottom, so there's a,
there's mark, it provides a no cover marker,
which is nice, so you can say, don't cover this test.
And then there's a fixture.
You can also use that as a fixture,
but then there's also the no cover fixture,
but there's a cuv fixture, which why would you use that?
Well, it says for reasons that no one can remember,
there is a cuv fixture that provides access
to the underlying coverage in an instance.
Some say this is disguised as a foot gun
and should be removed.
And some things, some think mysteries
make life more interesting and it should be left alone.
I love finding stuff like that in documentation.
- Some think mysteries make life more interesting.
Indeed, indeed they do.
- Okay.
- All right.
I got a quick one for you as well.
This one, you knew an XKCD was coming.
Good reference earlier.
So this has to do with like some deep thinking
into how to make your code last so long
that it becomes a legacy code
and people can use it for a long time
and maybe even curse its name a little bit.
So there's two parallel universes here.
On one, this woman just wrote this code.
She says, "It took some extra work to build,
but now we're able to use it for all of our future projects."
And the caption for that is,
"How to ensure your code is never reused."
- Yes.
- And then the other alternate world is,
"Let's not overthink it.
If this code is still in use that far in the future,
we'll have bigger problems.
How to ensure that your code lives forever."
- Yeah.
- And the hover is surely no one,
everyone will recognize how flexible and useful
this architecture is, spend a huge amount of effort
painstakingly preserving and updating this garbage
I wrote in 20 minutes.
(laughs)
- Yeah.
Well, I mean, there's so many examples of that,
isn't there?
I mean,
- Oh yeah.
- There's always-
- Internally, there's tons.
There's like, oh, just this,
throw this thing together, build script or whatever.
And I think that's what we're doing.
or whatever, and it's just, we'll rewrite it later.
10 years later, we haven't rewritten it, things like that.
I mean, Flask was like a really quick hack, wasn't it?
Like a joke at first or something.
- I think it was an April's fools thing, yeah.
I think so.
- Anyway, and the other side is the lesson
that I think people should learn is planning on reuse
is just a mistake, I think.
And I've been in many, many design meetings
where it's like, let's not plan six years out
into the future on this.
That's ridiculous.
We don't even know,
because I've also seen people plan for it
and it is reused and it is maintained,
but the things that you thought
you were gonna need to be variable
are not the things that really need to change in the future.
It's something else.
- Yeah, somewhere in the middle there lives a,
let's not overthink this, get it out there.
Oh, let's take a moment and refactor it.
So it's more reasonable in the way we now know it needs to be.
Carry on.
>> So my advice, keep the interface simple,
keep it minimal, document it, and test it.
And then if it grows, great.
>> Yeah, excellent.
>> Thanks for that. That's funny.
>> Yeah, for sure.
>> And thanks everybody for showing up,
and thanks Michael again for showing up.
>> Yeah, great to be here.
>> All right. Talk to everybody later.